README.md, before:

# GIFLANDIA

### Created by: Christine Macias

## Project Overview

**GIFLANDIA** is a dynamic, mobile-friendly GIF search engine powered by the Giphy API.
Users can:
- Search for GIFs using keywords
- Browse GIFs in a responsive, animated layout
- Favorite GIFs during their session

This project demonstrates skills in Javascript, SCSS, responsive design, API integration, and interactive front-end development.

---
## Table of Contents

- [User Stories](#user-stories)
- [Wireframes](#wireframes)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [How to Use](#how-to-use-this-website)
- [Technologies USed](#technologies-used)
- [Ideas for future improvement](#ideas-for-future-improvement)

---

## User Stories

- **User Story 1**:
I want to enter a keyword into a search bar and find matching GIFs.  
- **User Story 2**: 
I want results displayed in a neat grid layout for easy browsing.  
- **User Story 3**: 
I want to "favorite" GIFs I like so that I can view them again during my session.  
- **User Story 4**: 
I want the layout to adjust for mobile so I can use it on my phone.

---

## Wireframes

### Mobile Wireframe
![GIFLANDIA Mobile Wireframe](./wireframes/giflandia-mobile.png)

### Desktop Wireframe
![GIFLANDIA Desktop Wireframe](./wireframes/giflandia-desktop.png)

---

## Installation Instructions

To run this project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**
Using Git or GitHub Desktop:
```bash 
git clone https://github.com/cmacias076/giflandia.git

2. Navigate to the Project Folder
cd giflandia

3. Open with Live Server or Vite
Option A: Using Live Server (VS Code Extension)
    1. Open the folder in VS Code.
    2. Right-click index.html and choose "Open with Live Server". 
    3. The page should open in your browser and be fully functional.

Option B: Using Vite (if installed)
If you're using Vite:
- npm install
- npm run dev

NOTE: If you're using a .env file for your API key, create it in the root folder:
VITE_GIPHY_API_KEY=your_api_key_here

---

## How to Use This Website

1. Type a keyword (e.g., cats, funny, dancing) into the search bar
2. Click the "Search" button.
3. Browse GIFs in the responsive grid layout.
4. Click the ♡ button to favorite a GIF - it will remain favorited during your current session.

 Visit the site here: [GitHub Pages Link](https://cmacias076.github.io/giflandia/)

---

## Technologies Used

- HTML5  
- SCSS (Sass CSS Preprocessor)  
- JavaScript (ES6+)  
- Giphy API  
- Git & GitHub  
- GitHub Pages (Deployment) 
- Draw.io (Wireframing)  
- Google Fonts

---

## Ideas for Future Improvement

- Add trending GIFs on homepage by default
- Allow download or copy link to share GIFs
- Add animation or theme switcher (light/dark)

---

Commit message:

finalize display errors and README
adjusted aspect ratios and display errors with mobile and desktop views. Edited README installation instructions to be more precise.

README.md, after:

# GIFLANDIA

### Created by: Christine Macias

## Project Overview

**GIFLANDIA** is a dynamic, mobile-friendly GIF search engine powered by the Giphy API.
Users can:
- Search for GIFs using keywords
- Browse GIFs in a responsive, animated layout
- Favorite GIFs during their session

This project demonstrates skills in Javascript, SCSS, responsive design, API integration, and interactive front-end development.

---
## Table of Contents

- [User Stories](#user-stories)
- [Wireframes](#wireframes)
- [Installation Instructions](#installation-instructions)
- [How to Use](#how-to-use-this-website)
- [Technologies Used](#technologies-used)
- [Ideas for future improvement](#ideas-for-future-improvement)

---

## User Stories

- **User Story 1**:
I want to enter a keyword into a search bar and find matching GIFs.  
- **User Story 2**: 
I want results displayed in a neat grid layout for easy browsing.  
- **User Story 3**: 
I want to "favorite" GIFs I like so that I can view them again during my session.  
- **User Story 4**: 
I want the layout to adjust for mobile so I can use it on my phone.

---

## Wireframes

### Mobile Wireframe
![GIFLANDIA Mobile Wireframe](./wireframes/giflandia-mobile.png)

### Desktop Wireframe
![GIFLANDIA Desktop Wireframe](./wireframes/giflandia-desktop.png)

---

## Installation Instructions

To run this project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the Repository**
Using Git or GitHub Desktop:
```bash 
git clone https://github.com/cmacias076/giflandia.git

2. Navigate to the Project Folder
cd giflandia

3. Set Up Your Environment
create a .env file in the root directory and add your Giphy API key:
VITE_GIPHY_API_KEY=your_api_key_here
Make sure there are no quotes and no spaces around the = sign.

4. Install Dependencies and Start the Project
bash
- npm install # Install all required packages
- npm run dev # Start the Vite development server

Your app will be available at:
http://Localhost:5173
NOTE: Do not open index.html directly in browser - Vite handles module loading and hot reloading for development.

---

## How to Use This Website

1. Type a keyword (e.g., cats, funny, dancing) into the search bar
2. Click the "Search" button.
3. Browse GIFs in the responsive grid layout.
4. Click the ♡ button to favorite a GIF - it will remain favorited during your current session.

 Visit the site here: [GitHub Pages Link](https://cmacias076.github.io/giflandia/)

---

## Technologies Used

- HTML5  
- SCSS (Sass CSS Preprocessor)  
- JavaScript (ES6+)  
- Giphy API  
- Git & GitHub  
- GitHub Pages (Deployment) 
- Draw.io (Wireframing)  
- Google Fonts

---

## Ideas for Future Improvement

- Add trending GIFs on homepage by default
- Allow download or copy link to share GIFs
- Add animation or theme switcher (light/dark)

---
